there's something that looks like it has
been sliding into the ocean. So, they
found this thing that looked like a
crashed UFO or looked like an artificial
structure outside the Swedish coast.
They found that there it was covered in
burned um biological material which is
really weird because we don't have
volcanic activity
in that area. We need the actual
physical proof and I don't think any
government is willing to release that.
But the scientists who had claimed it
was just a rock never studied the actual
samples
and their There's no paper and no open
data. [music] There's just a claim to
the media by those scientists. And I'm
just like, this is not a way of
analyzing something.
Wow.
So, it there's there are no samples of
that object because it was so hard. So,
they couldn't get a piece [music] out of
it. So, I still think it's something
that should be analyzed because it
[music] might be possibly the best uh
candidate nonhuman artifact that you can
find.
Wow. And I really believe that uh we
need to seriously
uh study this kind of objects.
Yeah, absolutely.
I'm here with Dr. Beatatrice Vioale who
is a phenomenal astronomer both in a
conventional sense. she's conventionally
trained, but also uh I think you are a
rare kind of very open mind in your
field and you found some very
interesting things. And so I'm I'm
really excited to speak with you because
you're kind of on on the frontier.
You're the intersection, I think,
between scientific rigor and uh this
burgeoning field of studying kind of
anomalous phenomena in the air and in
space. And so thank you for being here.
I really appreciate it.
It's my pleasure and it's a true honor.
Oh, well, thank you. Uh how did you get
into space to begin with? Were you
always into space as a kid?
Uh actually not. So as a kid I was a
very very curious person. Well I am
still a very curious person but um and
but of course I was very interested in
space. So I was very curious about a lot
of things and I think already when I was
six or seven I had uh written a small
little uh essay about cats in flying
saucers. I still like cats as well. when
you were six or seven, you wrote
something. I had this Yeah, I had that
essay. I don't remember how long it was.
I I had also painted the cats and the
flying saucers there. So, I don't think
I changed too much since
Oh my god, that's unbelievable.
Anyway, I um I simply liked probably
this topic uh already since I was very
young. I got interested in uh molecular
biology and DNA and I actually started
my university studies with a engineering
program in molecular biotechnology
and then [snorts] I got super bored.
How do you get bored of molecular
biotechnology?
Well, it's like we were all the time I
think it was the the particular program
I was studying at at the university. We
were all the time repeating the central
dogma and how a DNA how DNA turns into a
protein over and over. And I just
started wondering about the mysteries of
the universe, galaxies, how are galaxies
gaining the shapes that we see, the
spiral form versus the elliptical forms.
I wanted to understand all that. Well, I
found myself on a PhD program in
astronomy and I started studying active
galactic nuclei, which are galaxies that
have lots of light coming from their
centra and uh I tried to see how
different types of active galactic
nuclei and you could see these different
types um by looking at the spectra. Some
had broad emission lines, some had
narrow and how are they related and I
and I did my PhD on that topic. However,
already like in my early years as a PhD
student, was it even maybe in my last
year as undergraduate student, I had
while writing some fable, I had started
wondering about if a star could vanish
or if an galaxy could vanish.
What do you think sparked that question
of could a galaxy vanish?
Well, I think I was so influenced and
fascinated by Halton Arp. Heltonarp's
theory. So Heltonarp was an astronomer
who was a super famous astronomer uh for
a very long while who s who one day
observed he he could see like he found
couples of galaxies that were they
looked like they were exchanging gas but
uh if you looked at their red shifts
which are indicators of distance they
had completely different red shift which
completely uh went against all the idea
of the expanding universe and how we
interpret red shift. So when he said
this all astronomers attacked him.
So it was it was the controversy of what
we have today with Avi and Omoa Mua
and in [clears throat] the 80s with the
non-cossmological red shift or anomalous
red shifts as we call them. Yes. So I
was fascinated by that thing and I wrote
an essay based on these ideas and then
somehow I killed off my poor quazar
because it was a fable and it vanished
in at the end of the story and I started
wondering but hey has anyone ever search
for galaxies or stars that vanish?
Interesting. And so can you explain what
a non-cossmological red shift is? So it
would be um so usually when we um um
look at galaxies we can see the red
shift that and it's a Doppler shift
because the uh universe is expanding and
it's moving away from us. So uh
so it's stretching light
and you're moving uh lower down on the
uh electromagnetic wave spectrum towards
Exactly
range.
Exactly. So what then happens is that um
people use this uh red shift to
calculate the distance to a galaxy. Now
the problem would be if you have two
interacting galaxies that are completely
different red shift, you wouldn't be
able to um use that as a distance
estimator.
So I was just curious about that.
Why do you think it was so
controversial?
Well, because that would uh question the
entire big bank idea. M
so it it would completely change all
fundaments of uh physics as we know
today or cosmology rather.
So the verdict on red shifts is still
out but you've moved on
and you might you might you might come
back at some point
when I get really bored. [laughter]
So how did you get into cuz I I know you
through my own interest in you know UAP
unidentified anomalous phenomena. How
did you get into even believing that
that was possible?
So, so I'm going to show you some like
uh contradictions in how I were thinking
uh when I was younger. So, as an
undergraduate student um I was in Sweden
and I one day heard about this
fascinating discovery that a team of
divers had done uh called the Baltic Sea
anomaly. So they found this thing that
looked like a crashed UFO or looked like
an artificial structure outside the
Swedish coast.
What did it look like?
It looked like a millennial falcon that
had just uh crashed into the deep seas.
Wow.
I was super fascinated and I was like,
"Oh my god, can there have been aliens
coming to visiting on Earth?" Later when
I started working with these searches
for extraterrestrial intelligence, which
we did through the project by looking
for vanishing objects.
Mhm. [clears throat] Um that's
that's when I started wondering about
the UFO question as well which I until
then didn't want to touch.
And is there any government interest
when it comes to this?
Well, I don't know about that but I know
that they did super interesting uh
investigations of it. I think they found
that they were it was covered in burned
um biological material which is really
weird because we don't have volcanic
activity
in that area. Plus, I I don't think they
even said it was a crashed UFO. I think
their idea is that this is an artificial
structure and they don't know what it
is, but some kind of artificial
structure and and they also saw there is
this kind of there's something that
looks like it has been sliding into the
ocean. Sadly, Fox News went out with
saying that this is just a rock,
but the scientists who had claimed it
was just a rock never studied the actual
samples. And there there's no paper and
no open data. There's just a claim to
the media by those scientists. And I'm
just like, this is not a way of
analyzing something.
Wow.
So it there's there are no samples of
that object because it was so hard. So
they couldn't get a piece out of it. So
I still think it's something that should
be analyzed because it might be possibly
the best uh candidate non-human artifact
that you can find.
Wow. And I really believe that uh we
need to seriously
uh study these kind of objects.
Yeah, absolutely. We should go down
there and try to gather resources. I
mean that's
I hope these two guys will get all the
support they can to actually study it
and research it.
So how does looking at vanishing stars
then lead you to an interest in UAP or
UFOs?
So we were looking for these uh
vanishing stars.
Mhm. And so now the people uh talk about
vanishing stars sometimes in different
ways than I talk about them. So we had
um uh so we had access to these
cataloges uh like lots of imagery from
1950 and also a catalog called the US uh
Navy catalog and then we had uh images
of the sky as it looks today. And so we
were comparing this images from the
early 50s to images as it looks today.
And I was hoping to see this perfect
sparkling star that you can find in
multiple images that one day vanishes.
But before you find that, you find lots
of candidates and like things that you
see in the 50s that have vanished, but
you don't know if it's a beautiful uh
star or if it's something else. Uh I had
this image where you could see multiple
stars appearing and vanishing which is
completely crazy because one thing to
have one transient but when you have
several of them happening in a small
space at the same time you really start
wondering. So I started studying this
phenomenon. I showed it to my colleagues
um and we all started investigating it.
Uh we had this guy at Grand Telescope
Canaria, one of my friends who actually
pointed the world's largest optical
telescope, a 10.4 m telescope to the
positions of all these nine objects or
eight of them or something like that and
there was nothing left.
Wow.
We were hoping to see like, you know, we
were really hoping to see some kind of
counterpart there and you said, "Oh,
maybe there were nine lasers or
whatever."
There was nothing like that. And then we
started wondering so what can actually
cause this thing and there's no
astrophysical explanation. So we started
looking at various kind of instrumental
explanation and all of them have
and this is not a supernova or like you
know the heat death of the sun type
thing turns into a black hole or nothing
dwarf or something.
You're not going to get several of them
in a small space at the same time.
Wow.
So this just didn't match anything
just like perfect anomaly basically.
It's not explained by any
although today you can have that in the
sky because today you have lots of
satellites that sometimes are blinking.
You have lots of space garbage
and then short reflections just happen
due to
I mean because you have solar
reflections.
Sure.
The problem is that
that would have this is from 1950
we didn't have any of that technology
back then. Yeah. Yeah.
So, and that's how I became interested
and I
got an idea of that one of the ways how
one can also search for more such
examples by looking for those that are
lying along a line or in a narrow band.
So my friend Lash helped me to develop
the statistics to [snorts]
uh properly see how many do we need at
least in a line in order to or or in a
narrow band in order to say that um even
if you have these kind of transits also
their positioning is anomalous
that they are kind of not randomly
placed but they are um aligned or so and
we had two such examples that were
statistically significant
and one is uh five objects on a narrow
band and it's from the 27th of July
1952. Yeah,
my colleague Enrique found these three
uh stars, the triple transient and um
this one is from the 19th of July 1952
and it's super beautiful. And then my uh
colleague Dave Alman who is the manager
media manager for Vasco he said do you
know what happens on or what happened on
19th of July 1952 no I wasn't around so
he introduced me to the Washington uh
flap
that's absolutely amazing I mean cuz in
UFO lore not even lore this was a
national event it was a it was all over
the press it was in you know newspapers
saying you know, saucers on the White
House lawn. It prompted a call between
Truman and Edward J. Rupelt, who was the
head of Blue Book at the time. And it
was, you had this Washington invasion or
DC flyover where there were saucers all
over DC at the time. And it was spec, it
was July of 1952, but it was
specifically two weekends. It was the
19th and 20th, and it was the 26th and
27th. So, I find that absolutely
remarkable. So these are naval records
that you're looking at to see.
We use this naval observatory catalog
initially or I used them initially but
later we just went to the directly to
the Mount Palmer images.
Got it. And so you're seeing images
you're seeing this
three in a row and then five in a row.
In your case
the three are just randomly placed and
the and the five are along a narrow
band.
Okay. Got it. And and then they just
seem to vanish. They weren't in the
public observable data like a year later
or even a week later.
Exactly like you said.
That's wild. I mean that's really
fascinating. Is there anything that is
distinct about them when comparing them
to other stars in the images or do they
look like garden variety stars?
They look like garden variety stars. We
will we actually now are reexploring whe
whether they look identical to the
garden variety stars
or if there might be some small tiny
difference because you can expect slight
differences if you have short flashes
depending on the shorter they are the
more they might be concentrated.
Interesting.
So,
and um have you seen any vanishing stars
since 1952? Have you have you combed
through the records since then or? uh we
have a lot of single transients but what
I actually want to do is to look at more
cases of multiple transients. We have
we have some more cases when we were
looking for these alignments that we
just ignored because we were looking for
alignments.
Can you describe the methodology of
project Vasco? What what exactly are you
doing? So uh we take images from Mount
Palomar from the early 50s and then uh
we look at the same positions in uh new
images from Pan Stars
and Mount Palomar is an observatory in a
telescope in California.
Exactly. And then we use this uh images
from Hawaii and we compare the same spot
just 70 years later.
Wow.
And see has something vanished. It was
actually quite fun. uh there was an
expert uh in satellites that contacted
me when he saw our paper where we're
looking for these alignments and I found
these uh two particularly interesting
cases and he wrote me something like but
come on you have just found satellites
uh haven't you thought about that and I
wrote back did you look at what year
these satellites are from they're kind
of before Sputnik
yeah I think that's kind of hard to
argue with You know, it was quite fun
and you can't imagine how often some
astronomers actually make that kind of
comment like, "Aren't you just having
satellite lints?"
Do you remember Don Menzel? Do you know
that name by any chance?
Yeah.
Famous astronomer.
That's my favorite
typical
arc villain.
He kind of is, right? It was all like
what what was it like temperature
inversion? He was a Harvard astronomer
and I think he was also a cryptographer
and um kind of deep in the national
security state and he would just write
these kind of naysayer debunking books
um in the ' 50s and um he would describe
all this stuff, you know, light light
reflections or, you know, temperature
inversions and that sort of thing. But
yeah, what what are your thoughts on it?
Why is he your favorite villain? I mean,
I don't think he he ne necessarily is a
villain, but there's some very
interesting coincidences around his name
that really make me wonder
what what are the coincidences?
Well, first, I mean, we all know that he
was a super famous UFO debunker, if not
the most famous UFO debunker.
Absolutely.
And he helped the uh US Air Force to
debunk the Washington 1952 flap. Y
and two or 3 months after he suddenly
becomes the director of Harvard
Observatory and he destroys one side of
the photographic place and and he
doesn't ask I understand from the record
he doesn't ask the astronomers to select
the place no he asked his secretary to
go and throw away uh onethird of the
plates and there's a woman Dory
Toughlight that has been uh
[clears throat] like telling about this
story in her memoirs and kind of he
started revenging on her later too for
as I understood it for that she tried to
protect some of the plates. He also
threw away a a number of the log books
that are keeping the observations and
what plates exist. In 1953, Donna Mensel
also stopped the astronomers at Harvard
to carry out their very famous sky
survey where they were monitoring the
entire sky since already late 19th
century and he stopped them and uh they
didn't do this survey between 1953 to
1967 for roughly 15 years.
So uh he also had apparently some more
later episodes of plate destruction. I
heard
that is wild
and suddenly you find that his name is
famous for the so-called MJ12 majestic
and you start wondering of course I mean
I can't help it but it's a lot of
coincidences because we also see things
on these dates from Mount Palar
well the other fascinating thing about
Don Menzel is he went on to run the
Bureau of Public Standards which you
know they're sort of codifying time
zones but also a lot of astronomical
data as well. And so if anybody were to
like manage our reality, it would be
somebody in that position. And then I
don't know if you know this fact, this
is kind of trippy, but he had an
understudy, a PhD um at Harvard who
studied right under him named Lou
Branscom. Lou Bransk gave Edward Condan
his clearance back. And Edward Condan
went on to do a hit job on UFOs with the
Condan Committee, which killed Blue
Book. So it was literally Menzel's like
protege giving Condan his clearance so
that he could completely kind of put the
the Kaibos once and for all on UFOs and
kind of kill the field. So
he's my favorite arc villain.
Yeah, I think he should. Yeah, I think
he he's an arch villain. I think
[laughter] there's there's something
going on there. And we were talking in
the car earlier about um Carl Sean who I
think is such a fascinating figure
because you know we were saying he in
his early diaries he would write all
about UFOs. She was clearly sort of
fascinated by them. It feels like if you
read, you know, pale blue dot or watch
contact,
he sort of, it seems like this
tongue-in-cheek reference to actual, you
know, non-human intelligence or
extraterrestrial visitation. But then
publicly, he just seems to dogmatically
flip on the topic and just become this
kind of debunker actually right around
the time when Jay Allen Heinneck kind of
goes in the opposite direction. and he
was running blue book an astronomer and
he says you know actually I played a
part in the cover up and so it's
interesting that that um yeah Carl Sean
there seems to be this kind of uh split
between his private life and beliefs and
and public life on UFOs.
So do you know that uh Alan Heinik
worked under Mensel at Harvard. So there
was this project called operation
moonwatch held by Fred Whipple. So Fred
Whipple was the PhD student of uh Don
Manso and so he created this uh program
where they had this station like they
were uh they had 12 stations around the
earth with a lot of citizen scientists
that were tracking satellites over the
sky and um so Alan Heinek was helping
Whipple in this program and they
actually had 36 UFO report that I think
Jacquali found that we now uh like also
look through. There are some very
interesting things there. So,
astronomers and and amateur astronomers
have been seeing UFOs forever. It just
has been ignored.
Do you know who's running the Harvard
undersea observatory at the time?
Galileo project.
A [laughter]
currently maybe, but the guy at the time
was Robert Sarbacher. You know those
moments in the middle of the day when
you feel your energy dipping and you
just need something to help you reset?
That's when I grab my greens and it's
become my favorite way to recharge.
Greens is a refreshingly delicious blend
of 14 essential greens, adaptogens,
antioxidants, and even mushrooms. It's
packed with everything your body needs
to fill key nutrient gaps and keep you
feeling your best without relying on
coffee or sugary snacks. I personally
love the strawberry kiwi flavor. It's
tangy, slightly sweet, and way better
than any other green powder I've tried
before. Plus, it's so easy to make. I
just mix a scoop with water during that
midday slump and it's like hitting the
refresh button on my day. Since adding
greens to my routine, I've noticed I
feel more energized, less stressed, and
just way more balanced. It's a simple
step that makes a big difference in how
I feel throughout the day. So,
prioritize your health this year with up
to 35% off Beam Greens. Just use code
Jesse Michaels. That's Michaelels with
no A. So, it's J E S S E M I C H E Ls at
checkout. This offer is only available
for a limited time only. Go to
shopbeam.com/jesseminichels
to enjoy a refreshing blend of 14
essential greens and use code Jesse
Michaels at checkout for up to 35% off.
Click the link in the description and
use my code to grab your greens now.
You're going to love it. Fellow
Alchemist, Lucy Breakers are changing
the game for nicotine users. If you're
looking for 100% pure nicotine product
that's tobaccof free, Lucy Breakers are
where it's at. Each pouch has a cool
twist. Inside is a capsule that can pop
to release an extra burst of flavor and
hydration. It's a unique experience that
makes your nicotine routine more
enjoyable and convenient. As someone who
delves into the most heretical thinkers
and ideas of our time, I appreciate
products that challenge the norm. Lucy
Breakers do just that. My personal go-to
flavor is mint. Whether I'm deep into a
podcast discussion, exploring new
frontiers, or brainstorming ideas,
throwing in a Lucy is an easy way to
keep the day moving. Plus, the
flexibility and strengths let you choose
what suits you best. Let's level up your
nicotine routine with Lucy. Go to
lucy.co/jesse
and use promo code Jesse to get 20% off
your first order. Lucy has a 30-day
refund policy if you change your mind.
Again, that's lucy.co and use code jesse
to get 20% off. And here comes the fine
print. Lucy products are only for adults
of legal age. Every order is
ageverified. Warning, this product
contains nicotine. Nicotine is an
addictive chemical. Thanks so much to
Lucy for sponsoring today's episode, who
David Grush says went on to basically
create UFO secrecy through the Atomic
Energy Act of 1954 and was very close
confidant with Thomas Townsen Brown
who's working on anomalous gravity
research. And so seems like Harvard was
the epicenter of a lot of this
interesting work. It seems so
fascinating to have been at Harvard in
the 1950s. And actually the same time as
Mensel was there, JFK was the on the
board of overseers for the astronomer
department.
I didn't know that.
I found that in Stanton Freriedman's
notes. So I'm fascinated.
That's amazing. Yeah. I've always
wondered how much do you think JFK was
maybe privy to the UFO thing because
there's this letter.
I don't know anything about J.
All this is outside my special
specialtity. I'm now wildly speculating.
Really speculating.
That's what we do on my ship.
But [laughter] uh uh there's a letter
that was foyed. You know, the Freedom of
Information Act was used to request it
out of the government in 2005 and it was
from JFK to acting director of the CIA
John McCone. It was after JFK had fired
Allan Dulles and he's asking for data on
unknowns because he's worried that the
Russians, the Soviets might view it as a
threat if they see the unknowns in their
airspace. And I would think it was fake,
but it really dovetales with the
language that was used in the 1971 salt
talks where on record we're saying that
we have to coordinate with the Soviets
on unknowns in their airspace and our
airspace, especially around sensitive
military installations so that these
things don't provoke war. And if you're
thinking about Daytona, that's obviously
a really important vector to kind of
think about. And so I always ask myself,
you know, this guy John Greenwald,
blackvault.com,
has done a lot of work on this and he's
looked into the veracity of this
document. And it the verdict's still
out. It's it's unclear. And I think
there are a lot of reasons to think it
might not be real, but it's it's
interesting cuz I there were some people
in and around the JFK assassination that
think that maybe that, you know, it had
something to do with his inquiries into
UFOs. I don't know.
There's a lot of fascinating questions
to explore for sure.
But that's really interesting. I didn't
know he was I mean I know he was the
Harvard affiliated. I had no idea he was
uh at all involved in anything they were
doing in the world of astronomy. That's
really fascinating and cool. What is the
current So you did project Vasco and now
you're on to a new project to get more
of a smoking gun possibly around these
anomalous objects. Can you describe what
that project? still have Vasco running
and we are going to be looking for more
uh signatures of satellites with the
Vasco project and like hopefully also
make a new citizen science project where
we look for these signatures.
Was that the extent of the vanishing
stars just the 1952 or you found a lot
of vanishing?
Um well we found a lot of transients
things that appear and vanish.
Okay. Okay. So what exactly do you hope
to do with exop probe? If you remember
with the Vasco project um when we saw
this multiple transits there were no
satellites in the sky. Today there's
loads and loads of space debris. So now
what we want to do is that we want to
look for uh this kind of signatures of
non-human artifacts
uh in orbit around the earth outside the
earth's atmosphere. But we also want to
remove all this uh contamination from
human space debris uh directly when we
do our observation so that we get clean
data. So to do that we have first we
have a method that I cannot discuss how
we are removing all this space debris
but more importantly or equally
importantly is that we are are hoping to
build a network of telescopes
and by having multiple uh telescopes you
can determine the distance uh to an
object and the more telescopes you have
the more accurately you can actually
determine this distance in three
dimensions so that you can actually
eventually go
pick up the object and bring it down to
the earth because that's what I would
like to do to bring down an actual ET
probe. So that's what exoprobe is about.
It's about validating a finding,
verifying it, localizing the object and
characterizing the nature of it. Since
the 1960s, we have developed new uh way
of imaging the skies, new technology for
imaging the skies. We don't use photo
emotions anymore like was done in the '
50s. Um, our cameras are much more
sensitive. We have also artificial
intelligence that can analyze huge
amount of data. We can we have we can
now digitize the entire sky that wasn't
possible in the 60s. All that was
impossible for them that time or
extremely difficult. And today you have
all the methods you need to look for
probes.
So now since radio seti has failed,
why not going back to the second best
idea of those times which is looking for
artifacts and probes from advanced
civilizations?
And I think that's the route we have to
take. And we I also believe that instead
of looking for anomalies blindly, we
should look specifically for artificial
non-human objects.
That's uh how I'm thinking. I think it's
a error to do
UFO projects too open where you look for
anything that doesn't match whatever is
natural or earthly. I think we need to
be much more concrete with what we are
looking for. If we're thinking of
metallic orbs, you design a project
designed for looking
for metallic orbs.
That makes so much sense. We were
talking earlier and there are certain
projects out there that kind of just use
generic, you know, a lot of sensor
modality, kind of constant observation,
and then just the exclusion principle.
And it's like, okay, there are all these
objects we do recognize. What lies
outside of the scope of what we
recognize? and you presented this really
interesting kind of model which updated
me where it was like no you actually
need a hypothesis going in that's
actually really good that's good science
having an idea of what you're looking
for and then whatever signatures you'd
expect to see from that thing and
actually looking for that precisely and
so I guess the question for you would be
in the case of UAP or UFO do you have
specific signatures you might be looking
for
yes we are looking for either solar
reflection
that can be short or it can be streaking
or we look for emissions for from uh
artificial objects. We simply want to
look for these very distinct uh
signatures
and like one discussion I have in a new
manuscript that we put out is that I
don't like the definition of UAP because
it it fits almost everything now.
Yes.
It's it's so broad
and in that way
UFO is more limited object.
Yes. But even better is flying saucer.
Yeah,
because when you have flying saucer, you
directly can see the flying saucer in
your head.
But when you see it in your imagination,
you can imagine how it would look in
your data,
right?
That that you can directly transfer it
to an image in uh in your mind
makes it possible to design a scientific
experiment that is very clearly looking
for these flying saucers. Now, I'm not
saying that you should only look for
fine saucers because we know about the
metallic orbs and
and all these other possible signatures
we can look for. But, uh, having it so
concrete makes it possible to also not
only imagine the experiment but also
imagine all the ways how it could fail.
Yeah.
And all the limitations
uh of your design. While when you when
people work with exclusion principle and
look for everything that doesn't fit
every I mean that doesn't fit the
earthly or the natural you have so many
things you have to test. You can always
go on forever and say and what will you
actually prove from that?
You just prove that there's a bunch of
stuff outside of what you'd expect but
you're sort of you know using process of
elimination forever.
Exactly. So it's it's a barely falsif
falsifiable hypothesis. uh while if you
have the flying sorcerer a very concrete
hypothesis. So I think um my feeling is
that more science projects have to be
working with very concrete hypothesis
around uh the UFO question.
What are you so when you say you're
looking for like light reflections and
light emissions? Is that specifically
like uh you know in a in a specific
light wavelength or is it is it other
possible signatures or is it it's just
light?
Well, you can look all over the
electromagnetic spectrum.
Mhm.
Um
I'm going to start in the optical but I
think the infrared u might be very very
interesting.
I've heard a lot of uh people commenting
on that there are many more UFOs in the
infrared. However, I'm a little bit
skeptical because um our eyes are
trained with the optical.
I mean, we are all the time
um judging an object what it is based on
optical light. When people look at
infrared imagery, they don't have that
same experience.
So, I think it's much easier to find a
UFO simply by the lack of experience. It
doesn't mean that they are
more visible in the in the infrared.
could just mean that we are worse at
identifying objects in the infrared.
So,
so you think like cuz one example would
be you're familiar with the Nimitz case
in 2004 Tic Tac.
So that was detected right when a
forward-looking infrared new system from
Rathon was installed on the Nimttz
carrier strike group, you know, system
or whatever. And so people hypothesized
that that aperture allowed them to see
the UFO. And if UFOs are moving like we
think they might move, you'd expect
light stretching or light crunching. And
so in the light stretching case, you'd
get, you know, red shifts and you get
you, you know, infrared would be
probably better. And then in the light
crunching case, if it was moving towards
you, you'd see UV. And so, you know, may
maybe these are good detection methods.
I guess we will discover. have to uh we
have to do more infrared surveys and
simply search for UFOs in it uh or
search for flying saucers in it like I
rather suggest. I I I think there has
been also um certain like misdirection
like um when people try to answer the
question what what are UFOs because you
have all these UFO reporting groups that
spend lots of time trying to say what
are UFOs and they say oh no you know 3%
of the time it's birds and 10% of the
time is is insects and you know they go
on I think it's an irrelevant question
the only question that should matter is
like are those that would uh push the
edge of science which is for for example
uh are there non-human intelligence
yes
on our planet that's the relevant
question to answer not what are UFOs and
and what is all falling into that
category
yes
so if you say is there some non-human
technology that we see available that's
a relevant question the relevant
question is of course also if uh u UFOs
have some kind of um medical effect on
people.
Yes.
Or are they posing an a hazard to pilots
or uh to people on the sea? Yeah.
These are relevant questions but just
the question what a UFO
it's too broad.
Yeah. Have you ever experienced because
you are going out on a limb and even
looking into this stuff you you know
it's you avibe a few other astronomers
of serious pedigree are even
entertaining this do you uh have you
experienced any blowback for for what
you're doing? Yes, I have so far not
come in the form of direct uh complaint
on my choice of topic from astronomer
colleagues. They have been too busy with
attacking me for my choice of
collaborator and
so
in 2021 uh when we did this discovery of
the nine transients uh I published a
paper with my colleague Jeff Marcy. So
he had been uh cancelled in a uh sexual
harassment scandal in 2015.
And uh but he kept on publishing papers
and everything kind of I mean he even if
he he retired himself but he still
published papers and collaborated with
scientists except for that the same week
as we um
uh got our paper accepted into the
journal suddenly the National Academy of
Sciences decided to kick him out of the
National Academy of Science. sciences.
So he was removed from there and then
science and nature published papers
about it and everyone said who is still
collaborating with Jeff Marcy and we had
that paper already accepted and I
remember someone like calling me and
saying don't make any press release
because otherwise you're going to get
seriously attacked.
That's wild. So
and so since then I got kicked out of
conferences. They find all kind of ways
to like not letting me talk, forgetting
my registration.
I was had social media attacks. I had
like very like
I I'm going to work with this scientist
because he's fantastic simply. So, and I
like I believe in human rights and
that's my thing that I don't understand
that people should be like um
the idea of that one condemns a person
outside of the court.
Yeah.
In a in a public court is for me
he was never convicted or
no nothing like that. So he was that is
for me goes against the human rights.
And the second thing is that even if
people do something wrong, they still
should have a chance for rehabilitation.
Why is Jeff Marsy suddenly an exception
to all human rights? I just could I I
cannot accept that.
Also,
I I have no idea what he did in 2015 and
I didn't know him back then. I got to
know him much later.
So, not even commenting on, you know,
whatever happened then. the timing. For
me, I care about the truth as far as,
you know, what people's incentives
around, you know, attacking the person.
It's like you're okay, go after the
person when they did it. If if if you
really care about the thing they did,
but to go after it right when you
publish your paper about these anomalous
objects, that seems to be at least
motivated by the anomalous objects and
trying to cover that up and not like the
initial.
I cannot answer that question. And there
might be a it might have been a
coincidence but it's anyway it happened
that same time. So I have no idea what
to answer on this but I can say that I
had a lot of um uh um a lot of troubles
because of my collaboration with Jeff.
Well, I'm sorry.
And uh but uh I will work with him as
long as it's productive, as long as it's
fun and helps the science. I will keep
working with him and I simply am not
going to allow some peer pressure to uh
stop me or force me into uh giving up my
belief into human rights and that's
something that is important to me.
Good for you. Do you think we are close
to finding anything? I mean do you have
like an intuitive sense for just the
overall dynamic of you know finding kind
of more of a smoking gun more evidence
around
I think we have to search for more
uh we have to um do the best we can with
the scientific projects we have to
attack the data from all directions
and we have to ignore all the setbacks
because I think actually one of the
things that the whole bad episode with
all these uh troubles with the cancel
culture taught me is that one has to
develop resistance. One has to develop a
resistance on peer pressure and critique
and I think it maybe even helped me.
Would I if I wouldn't have that
experience would I dare to work on UFOs
today so
is a question I ask myself or did that
actually liberate me?
Yeah.
In some ways that I say okay they're
always going to complain. So,
some of my favorite people have been
like unreasonably cancelled and it's
weirdly freeing because they're just
like when you get crucified like that,
you're just like what whatever.
Especially when it's like completely
unwarranted and and and unreasonable. Uh
you kind of like let go and just, you
know, and then you're really you're kind
of free. You're not bounded by like
needing to be liked or validated, which
most most people are.
So, that I think that happened to me. I
just say, "Okay, I'm going to do the
science I love to do. I love to work on
this topic. I don't care if anyone now
uh thinks that I'm touching forbidden
land or that I'm saying something that I
shouldn't be saying. I know some people
are uncomfortable with that. I have the
European Crash Retrieval Initiative as a
hobby project in my free time."
What is that? The European Crash
Retrieval Initiative.
It's a private uh citizen uh driven
crash retrieval team. How do you go
looking for crashers?
Well, we actually are
how can I get involved?
So, um, so we have a small database run
by Vasco where we take in, uh, all the
tips and suggestions for possible crash
retrievals in Europe. We only stay
inside Europe because of the uh, it's
easier from a legal point of view to
operate.
And are the databases just like colle
crowdsourced from people saying like
online I saw a thing crash and that that
sort of thing? Yeah, we hope we have u
gotten lots of suggestions for cold
cases. Uh but we hope to also get some
hot case where someone says, "Hey, I saw
a UFO crash yesterday. Can you come
here?"
Wow.
That's what we are hoping to get.
Do you have any recent cold cases?
We are working on a cold case that I
cannot go into details on, but it's
super cool, super scary.
I want to go. [laughter]
That sounds amazing. But uh I I can't
comment further on that. But there are
some really interesting cases. Yes.
Wow.
So
is there a correlation with where the
crashes occur? Are they around specific
sites or
I cannot answer any questions
about that?
I I I I have I'm I'm I cannot comment
more on
Okay. Is it like it's like a private
group or
It's a private group. So uh it's uh led
by Thomas Pinder and Alex Tal in Sweden.
Okay.
So they are the uh project leaders. Are
you guys is there like a desire to
commercialize this stuff?
We we are trying to actually to stay as
uh independent as possible
so that we cannot get under pressure in
any way.
So [clears throat] so far we are not
funded. We are just putting our own
private money into uh if there's
something fun that we find.
Mhm.
We are looking into some interesting
cases and we have something particularly
interesting right now. I cannot comment
on it. Um I hope that we will learn more
in the coming year uh while working on
that. And the idea is simply that we
don't want to wait for governments to
open up about materials or UFOs. I
simply believe that this is a question
everyone can work with. I believe that
the only thing you need is some
um some activity that one starts
collecting inquiring about potential
potential UFO crashes and try to see is
there anyone who willing to share
material or willing to share uh
knowledge of such a crash. Um I suspect
that there must be quite a number of
such crashes in Europe also and not only
uh those that one discusses um those
that I want discussed regarding United
States. So
where is the information and what can we
learn about all this?
Is the methodology like scraping the
internet for like people writing about
this stuff? Well, uh we are doing some
active uh investigations of course also
looking ourselves for these um places
but also hoping that someone will just
uh inform us about something that is new
because it's sometimes maybe easier to
go to a newly crushed UFO than to try to
find it 50 years after.
Fascinating. Do you have a hypothesis as
to, you know, per our conversation
earlier, do you have a hypothesis as to
what you'll find in the form of a
crashed UFO?
Well, it would be nice to find a flying
saucer. [laughter]
Do you believe most of them are flying
saucers or do you think there are, you
know, this um Michael Shallon, this
journalist, just testified in front of
Congress, put out this 12-page report,
uh, Immaculate Constellation, this
program that seemed to be some
unagnowledged special access program in
the US. And in it there are like there's
a taxonomy. There are like different
descriptions of crafts. You have flying
saucers, you have orbs, you have
jellyfish is actually mentioned in this
document. Do you believe in kind of a
variety of things or do you think the
flying saucer is the main thing or what
do you think?
Well, my guess is that there would be a
variety of things. Um, but I first would
like to get confirmed a single object
that
before I could even speculate further
because
uh we need the actual physical proof and
I don't think any government is willing
to release that.
Why do you think you know like
at least not now? one, if I were playing
devil's advocate and acting skeptical, I
would say if you really have crashes
going on everywhere, they're not just
around military installations,
then like why don't we have a smoking
gun yet? Like if you have plenty of UFO
crashes in Europe and other places in
remote areas, why don't you have some
like Inuit tribe or something just come
upon a crashed UFO and then like you
know some anthropologist is visiting and
then they see the crash UFO or like I
don't know random explorers or travelers
or whatever like not we don't have one
case of like somebody you know having
like at least a larger craft Gary Nolan
has in his possession because they were
mailed to Jacqu Valle and he did mass
spectrometry on them these objects from
an Uba tuba crash in Brazil and you know
from from Roswell you have bits and
pieces of you know possible stuff but
you don't have like the larger objects
that you might expect. Well, my guess is
that um if I'm going to um think about a
counter reply to that is that we have
been so much as a society uh marinated
in skepticism
and we have been uh let's say if you now
would see something that is metallic and
a flying saucer like maybe you'll think
this is some waste from industrial waste
that is lying there. you will find
probably 1,000 ways of dismissing that.
And if someone would actually say there
seems to be a flying saucer in the
garden, you will again think that this
is some kind of military project and you
shouldn't go to check it out not to get
into trouble. I think we have ways of
rationalizing
uh and coming up with counterarguments
so so effectively that we wouldn't be
able to recognize a flying saucer if it
even just lied in front of us. That's
what I think that there is some sort of
programming as well that has been
happening.
What drives you on a deeper level? Do
you hope we do make contact? And if so,
how do you how would what would the best
form of that contact look like?
Absolutely. I really hope we make
contact with a benign, kind, and nice
civilization. I don't know how likely it
is to find such a civilization, but uh
imagine if we find out that we are in
touch, how much could we learn as
species? How much could we learn from
them? What could we learn? What are all
the discoveries that we don't have to
make but that we could learn about from
them directly? I think it's it would be
an amazing opportunity for humanity to
actually progress.
Amen. Is there anything on molecular
biology which you studied before or just
life in general or religion or anything
that you've rethought because of your
current contemporary interest from an
astronomical perspective in UAP?
That's a very good question.
I must say that I don't know the answer
to it, but I'm definitely open about the
idea that another civilization might
have been interacting with us for
thousands or
tens of thousands of years or longer and
that they could have brought some
influence already into
well our development. I'm open for that.
I want to know if it's that way or not.
I want clear answers. I want clear
answers with uh if there are any UFOs or
flying saucers that can be seen in
astronomical data.
I want uh simple binary answers to
whether there are um non-human
artificial objects on the earth or in
our oceans or buried underground. And I
want to know of course if there is some
non-human biologics that has been um
caught or by the humans that or by the
military because all these questions can
change our understanding of our place in
the universe, my place in the universe
and I would like to get answers within
our lifetime. I think this is the most
pressing and important question.
I'm with you. It's almost like a
governor has been placed on fundamental
physics and religion, our our
understanding of ourselves and the
universe we live in. And that governor
hopefully will come off. I have a weird
feeling it will in our lifetime which is
like wild. I mean maybe I'm wrong,
right? Like Stanton Friedman
unfortunately would have been wrong.
Like I don't think things shifted that
much in the last 50 to 70 years, but
maybe maybe now things are speeding up.
It kind of feels like they are.
It feels that way to me too. Uh I just
want to know and I hope that we will get
a positive answer soon either through
the disclosure process uh for the
political movement behind or through
science
uh if that is the case.
I just don't know what will be the
implications but I guess we will learn.
We'll find out. Well Dr. V Royale I
appreciate you spending uh time with me.
This was uh really remarkable to just
learn about all the stuff you're doing.
How can you know is there are you
looking for more funding? Is that like
something that you're always sort of
open to or like what how can people help
you uh you know in your in your efforts?
Well, there are several ways that they
can help us. Uh one is with the Exopro
project. We are always looking for more
support to set up more telescopes in uh
uh in New Mexico where we have our
telescope. I think I didn't um
[clears throat]
where in New Mexico. So, so, uh, the
Exopro project that I'm having now,
we're um setting up, uh, a network of
telescopes because that will allow us
to, um, to,
uh, look for such a signature from an
extraterrestrial probe or non-human
artifact, but also confirm it via
multiple telescope. And once you can see
it in at least two telescopes, you can
also get the distance to such an object
if it's outside the atmosphere where we
are looking. So we're looking outside
the atmospheres with exop probe. But uh
in order to localize it well you need to
have at least two that are well
separated
and of course for every additional
telescope there is a running cost coming
in and also the cost of the telescope
itself. So this is one way that one can
be supporting us. Another thing that I
would hope to do in Europe is that we
would like to have at some point a
conference
uh completely dedicated to um non-human
artifacts and how to search for them in
space, in the atmosphere, underwater,
underground, underground. And also these
are things that are difficult to
organize. we would where we always can
uh will appreciate some kind of
practical support uh to organize it if
you have a hole in Europe that we could
use for free for the audience and so on.
So there's lots of ways one can help.
Awesome. Well audience help Dr. Buriel
if you can if any of that applies to
you. I really appreciate that was
awesome. That was fantastic. Yeah.